# hydraulic-network-solver
This generic MATLAB code is to solve the pressure, flow rate and concentration distribution in a hydraulic network of channels in microfluidics such as concentration gradient generators or CGGs. 
# How To Use The Code
To use the code only an excel file is needed with the name "Connections.xlsx". This file has two sheets with the following names: "R" which stands for the resistors and "PQC" which contains the boundary conditions of the network, including pressure, flow rate and concentration. At the moment the solver is only able to solve for concentration of one species, however, for multiple species it is reasonable to run the code several times for each species provided that their dynamics is separable from each other (they do not have interactions with one another)
Each of the nodes should be assigned with a unique number (the value and order of the numbers is not important) then the excel sheet with the name "R" will contain properties of the connection between the nodes if there is any. First colomn is from whcih is the number of the starting node of the connection and the second column is the ending node of the connection. The third and forth columns are length and width of the connection respectively. The coneections can be circular pipe in which case the equivalent dimensions must be used. In the case that your microfluidic chip is double layer the height of the chip is not constant for all the connection and you need to change the code. In the code line 6 you need to initialize H or the height of the chip. 
The second sheet "PQC" has four columns. First is the number of the boundary node. The second column is the pressure at the node, the third is the flow rate and the fourth is the concentration. If there is no information available of any of the parameter then the element should be left empty. In general, for the outlet nodes, the pressure is known and it is usually set at zero and for the inlet nodes the concentration is known and the flow rates. 
